# Parameterization Study of The Efficiency of a Piezoelectric Flutter Based Harvester

The aeroelastic phenomenon of flutter is an interesting one. Often undesirable as it results in material deformation and fatigue, sometimes even catastrophic failure, these same deformations are also indicative of work being done by the flow. Using piezoelectrics it is then possible that perhaps we could tap on this phenomenon as an alternative means of extracting flow energy.

As a year one student however, flutter was something that was still beyond my understanding. Recognising this, my mentor instructed me in performing a mathematical simulation of how the degree of flutter would vary with the size and material properties of the wing. This would be my first experience working with MATLAB and drawing conclusions from the complex maps resulting from the simulations. To supplement my theoretical knowledge, I was tasked to design an experiment to investigate how these same parameters, as well as some others would affect the observation of flutter in reality.

Over the next few weeks, I would build and test sample after sample in the low speed wind tunnel at NTU, using a piezoelectric stem and an oscilloscope to quantitively measure the degree of flutter observed. I tested a number of shapes, stiffness and weight distributions tested in other studies, as well as parameters suggested by my mentor and managed to obtain similar trends to other experiments, as well as the theory.

While my project might not have led to any new insights in the field, it taught me, as a fresh year one university student, valuable skills pertaining to experimental design and report writing, and gave me a better understanding of this intriguing phenomenon.

The report can be downloaded [here](\assets\downloadable\Parameterization Study of The Efficiency of a Piezoelectric Flutter Based Harvester.pdf), and a poster summarizing the experimental design and results can be found [here](\assets\downloadable\Parameterization Study of The Efficiency of a Piezoelectric Flutter Based Harvester Poster.pdf)


### [Back to Home](/)
